# Matrix_Mul
Visual Analytics for Matrix Multiplication

This is my Master's thesis project as part of the Computer Science Master's degree at the TU Kaiserslautern.
This project is an application of visual analytics for physiochemical properties of molecular compounds. It includes a dashboard to visualize matrix multiplication as used in matrix factorization/matrix completion (MCM). The MCM data consists of the latent features of molecular compounds used as solutes and as solvents and the predicted activity coefficients for the  binary molecular mixtures prodcued by combining the solutes and the solvents. The predicted activity coefficients are generated using a probabilisitic factorization model introduced in [^1].
The dashhboard consists of four tabs to examine different parts of the dataset in detail.
1) **Solutes and solvents** -The physiochemical properties of the solutes and solvents and the predicted activity coefficients are visualised together. There is a button group included here with four buttons that allow the user to select the combination of the latent features of the solutes and the solvents that they wish to see. The buttons are thus ’U1*V1’, ’U2*V2’, ’U3*V3’ and ’U4*V4’. The various plots on this tab are configured according to the button group selection. This tab is primarily centered around a scatterplot, which graphically represents the relationship between the product of the chosen physiochemical properties along the x-axis and the predicted activity coefficient associated with the mixture formed by combining the specific solute and solvent pair along the y-axis. Additionally, two histograms showcasing the distribution of the selected latent features are presented in the lower left quadrant. On the lower right, a bipartite network graph is featured, where one set of nodes symbolises the solutes, while the other set denotes the solvents. These nodes correspond to sets of the values of the molecular compounds’ selected latent features, limited by a slider positioned beneath the scatterplot. The network graph facilitates the user to view the specific latent feature values for a specific range of the product values.
2) **Solutes** - Incorporates a parallel categories plot and clustergrams, that are aids in performing hierarchical and non-hierarchical cluster analyses. Positioned just below the parallel categories plot, there is a button group featuring four distinct buttons, each labeled as ’U1’, ’U2’, ’U3’, and ’U4’ which allow the user to select a specific solute latent 
feature they want to explore in more detail. Complementing this button group is the clustergram, that takes the form of a heatmap and a dendrogram, showcasing the hierarchical clustering of data.
3) **Solvents** - Represents the solvents, with a structure similar to that of the Solutes tab
4) **Overview** - Visualization of the solutes and the solvents as well as the predicted activity coefficients and the relationships between these dataset elements. It contains a correlation heatmap that visualises the correlation coefficients between the respective products of the latent features of the solutes and solvents, and the predicted activity coefficients. This tab also includes violin plots depicting the distribution of the four physiochemical properties of the solutes or the solvents, depending on the
user selection made via the button group positioned between the two plots. The button group consists of two buttons ’Solutes’ and ’Solvents’, which showsimultaneously the distributions of all the latent features of the solutes or the solvents respectively.

[^1]: Jirasek, F., Alves, R.A., Damay, J., Vandermeulen, R.A., Bamler, R., Bortz, M., Mandt, S., Kloft, M. and Hasse, H., 2020. Machine learning in thermodynamics: Prediction of activity coefficients by matrix completion. The journal of physical chemistry letters, 11(3), pp.981-985.
